And we're going.
I would like to see number one.
Andrea.
Okay.
On July 24th.
July 24th.
In situ.
Yes, in situ.
I cleaned up my office just for you.
Don't open the doors.
And look, this is stuff just arriving.
No, these are all things I'm working on for the catalog project.
The pamphlets, the archive boxes have
pamphlets published in a variety of languages during the 20th century.
I'm going through adding notes that will appear in the printed volume.
The index, however, is going to come at the end.
The other thing I'm adding is what librarians like to call subject access points, subject heading, in the pre-machine terminology.
we'll have at least the backbone of the index.
That'll be started, although that won't actually appear at the end of the volume.
Tell me a little bit about yourself.
Have you worked with children's books before?
Yes.
I started working for Lloyd when I was about three and a half years in my Ph.D.
at UCLA.
My teaching assistantship was just about to run out, and I got a letter in November from Neutrogena Corporation, and I said, huh, I knew who was at Neutrogena Corporation, because when I left the Morgan Library to go do my PhD at UCLA, I told Justin Schiller, ah, you know, that book collector, Tilda's book collector in Beverly Hills, Cox's, yeah, and I said,
If he ever wants a librarian or somebody to catalog his book.
He said this to gentlemen.
That's so funny.
I said, so you just let him know I'm out there, okay?
So nothing happens.
This letter comes.
And it's a perfect Lloyd letter.
I have it somewhere.
I'm probably misquoting it.
The text is probably better now in my memory than it was.
But the gist of it was, I've been trying to reach you by telephone at home, but you're never there.
Please call my...
assistant to set up an appointment to talk about a job, sincerely.
And this is when?
What year?
Oh, this is November 84, 85.
I can double check.
I've been with Lloyd for a long time.
Wow.
So I made an appointment because he's busy.
It was in the beginning of January.
So I went down and was ushered back to the executive suite where his
Immaculate Assistant Sonia was sitting, and I walked in and she looked at me.
She said, he's not here.
Did she know who you were?
Yeah, she knew who I was.
She asked him.
He's not here.
I said, oh, well, I've had this appointment for a while.
Well, he's in Europe.
He won't be back for another six weeks.
I said, all right.
It would be nice of somebody to call me.
If you'd met Sonia, you would understand.
I said, well, all right, I started to turn around, and she said, somebody said, well, where are you going?
And I said, well, uh, and she said, the books are in there, and pointed, and pointed to the room.
Well, I said, uh, well, what am I supposed to do?
And she looked at me, and she said, you're the librarian.
I said, all right.
Yeah, so, who knows?
So, well, I didn't know that.
I thought it was kind of strange to be told to work on some of these books.
I said, well, all right, I'll go in this morning and see what there is.
And essentially what the office was maybe about, it was larger than this.
So he kept the books at Neutrogena.
Well, he didn't have a condo.
Well, at that point he had them in various storage facilities in Neutrogena.
Most of them were living in...
an old airplane hanger, which was reputed to be one of Howard Hughes's, where it was the product warehouse, and it was in the back, and on pallet, shrink wrap.
And that had all been moved out of the house in Beverly Hills, and they'd been sitting there for years at that point.
Now, what was in the office she showed me into were the last three or four years' worth of acquisitions in boxes, without the invoices, everything piled up, shoved in drawers, and I just started unpacking things.
Did he have a vision of what he was doing at this point?
I mean, when you buy books, usually you handle them a little bit.
You take a look at them.
Well, he can.
He's the kind of collector who's more interested in the chase, I think.
The chase?
And the chase more interested in the chase.
Handling the goods.
Yeah.
He doesn't necessarily go back and look at them.
Well, I should say, if he goes back and looks at them, he does it.
He does it when either Ivy isn't around or he did it when I wasn't around.
I can't say for sure that he didn't do it.
Do you think at this point he had a sense of mission?
He clearly has a sense of mission here.
I've discussed this with him in as gentle a way as I can, but we have touched on some of the horrible tragedy that... Well, that's why all the books were on the pallets shrink-wrapped, because they were moved out of the house and put there.
I mean, there were, you know, there were boxes of things that clearly were just, just stuff was thrown in and sealed, and that was it, because someone, whoever it was, either couldn't bear to throw it away or whatever, and every once in a while, you know, you run into one of these boxes, and it's painful.
Well, when I was out there, and he was showing me through, and my first impressions are big for me.
It's almost even how I start writing that.
And at this point, I didn't know that the boy's name was Noah.
Sometimes ingenuous questions are pretty good questions.
I said, wow, these Noah's Arks.
And he said, I had a son named Noah.
Nice play, Nick.
I walked right into it.
But nevertheless, you know, and then, well, I don't know.
He can talk about it to some extent.
Yeah, and then I came back the next day.
It was good that it was a two-day interview.
And they went back to my hotel.
He told me where to go, the Renaissance Hotel, we'll go there, and listen to my tape, and then he went back there since I was really able to get, and he couldn't ask me anything, you know, and he was ready for it, I think.
But my point is, walking through beyond the Noah's Acts, which impressed me even more, were these little handwritten pieces of, like notebook paper, line paper, four pieces of paper, and each one had a name on it, and it was the surviving children of his.
Oh, right.
Yeah, yeah.
And it was books that were given to them while Joanne was alive.
Right.
And that last chance before these things go to Princeton, books that mean something to you.
And then I asked them, I said, everything else was perfect and precise, and yet this was kind of casual.
Well, actually, not all of those books were sorted out.
Some of the family books are still here.
But no, just the fact that he was doing this.
story touching, you know?
No.
Have you talked about it?
Actually, that's one of the other things I'm doing as I'm going through the books is making sure that we don't lose track of the books that were originally part of the family library that often have Joanne's notes to the children.
I was just the other day, I was a whole set of little French pamphlets, obviously
they've been bought to help the girls with their French, and Joanne, one of them, it's called La Fête de la Petite Sirene, so it's The Party is a Little Mermaid, and so Joanne had written Dear Toby and Happy Birthday.
How do you think it compares with Anderson?
It's hard to think.
It really is.
Yeah, it is.
I've written a lot of stories in my life, you know, you can't get callous to something like this, it's just...
Well, it's something he goes with every day, and I'm sure everyone's told you that.
He very rarely says anything about it.
No, I hate to transcribe myself.
I think the negotiations started while I was in England in 1990-1992, and UCLA had been working on him at that point since the late 80s.
They wanted it very badly.
Michael and Murphy wanted it very badly.
And they still wanted it very badly.
Well.
But he told me, you know, I don't know if this is the way coach of Western.
I've only been at most, you know, these two times.
But he said if Princeton doesn't, it's almost like a Samuel Pepys thing, right?
If Princeton doesn't do X things an X amount of time.
I don't know how serious he is about that.
But I would never start with a guy like him.
I mean, he's probably capable of doing that.
Yeah, he's a wild man.
No doubt about it.
I won't quote you on that.
No, I'd say it to his face.
I know he said that's how he said things out.
I know at one point he said he was... Again, I don't know if this has changed, but if...
For some reason, the collection was going to be sold at auction.
I was supposed to be one of the executors to see it through the auction.
He foresees the possibility of this being sold at auction?
This is something he talked about maybe four years ago, five years ago.
I mean, I suppose it's just a good businessman not hedging his bets.
It's just, I suppose, taking care of, foreseeing every eventual.
I have no idea if he did it or not, but he asked me.
Justin and me, and I think that was the plan.
I don't know if he did it.
But you certainly must come to work every day with the knowledge that this man has an outline of all things.
He wants things to be done in the grand scheme.
He wants things done in the grand scheme.
So right now we're... And there's a big picture.
Yeah, there's a big picture.
How clear it is in his mind, I don't know to tell you the truth.
And we have this extraordinary library, and it is a library, not a collection.
I think we should probably make that point.
Would you agree with that?
Yeah, it's a library.
If I'm repeating material, he's already told you.
On the one hand, he wants the books themselves to evolve into an international research center for children.
I don't know to what extent he envisions it also being a resource for historians, which I think, given the climate right now, it's probably cultural and social historians who are most likely, in some ways, to make use of the books more than people in literature, at least until the maniac or theory passes.
of interest in literary history reemergence, if it does.
Of course, he doesn't have a scholar's temperament at all.
I suppose that's why he has me, because I'm the scholar on the team, I guess.
A scholar on the team being strategic.
You have a PhD, what, in Library of Science?
No, no, no, no, no.
I'm a PhD in 18th century English literature.
Oh, wow.
Oh, that's wonderful.
That's because I specialize in the 18th century children's books.
I see.
I'm particularly interested in them, because it's got
Because the children's book in the form we conceive of is one of the whole products of, if you want to think of it as early consumer capitalism.
You're a scholar.
I'm a scholar.
Are you a librarian as well?
I am a librarian as well.
By training?
By training and by background, I've worked at the, well, of course, I've worked at
special collections at UCLA while I was doing my Ph.D.
I curated some exhibitions.
I was in and out doing various kinds of chores.
I compiled an index of the first review journal devoted to children's books as an occasional publication for special collections.
I've also worked at the Morning Library.
When I'm still in the Department of Early Children's Books, I was a consultant to the
Opie Collection of Bodleian, and my principal role there was to help them with the big microfilming project.
So you really didn't have the interview for this job.
You just had to agree whether or not to take it.
I mean, he certainly must have... Well, no, he didn't... He must have been in a short list of one, would be my idea.
Well, he actually didn't insist.
It was actually Princeton's idea, actually, to approach me.
I, frankly, didn't expect to be asked.
I didn't know very much about, I didn't really know very much about the whole climate at Princeton, and I assumed that from the institution's point of view it would be a drawback to have the private librarian come because... Well, sure, there's conflict.
It's unavoidable.
The other reason I thought they wouldn't ask is because they knew it would have to be a package deal.
They'd have to come up with something for my husband as well.
My husband and I are the first spousal appointments in Princeton University.
He's the curator of graphic arts.
Bill told me, by the way, that I built Joyce, and I should probably want to talk to him.
I hope to have a chapter vaguely considered right now.
It's the only one I really haven't researched yet on the book arts.
You've got to talk to Andrea's.
Yeah, you should talk.
The next trip down, because I'm going to come down to see John McPhee.
That'll be soon, so I'll be in touch.
Yeah, so I more or less just wrote it off.
I said, well, it's going to be somebody else's baby.
And so I was quite surprised when Bill Joyce called and then said... How many people have that kind of influence?
Well, but he didn't ask.
He never asked.
He never suggested that they offer John to me.
Ever.
That was all Princeton's initiative.
At least that's what they tell me.
Well, let's put it in another context.
This is how important Lloyd Coateson is to them, I guess.
Oh, yes.
There's no doubt about it.
And maybe this should be off the record to tell you the truth.
You want something off the record.
You don't have to put it off.
Just so stated.
I'll listen to it.
I go over quotes to people, by the way.
No, that's fine.
To be perfectly honest, it was very difficult to decide to take the job when they offered it, because I knew how important donor Lloyd was to the university.
I also knew that Princeton did not really have programs that would naturally gravitate to the collection.
This wasn't supporting the curriculum.
No, no.
There are some faculty members who are actively opposed to the collection coming here because children's books are not befitting.
And I mean, I would be, frankly, between, I'd be torn between the Downer University Library and the University of Administration.
And frankly, I mean, there are plenty of times I still don't know if I'm up to it because I'm not really a political animal.
I'm a scholar, for better or worse.
I guess I'm an old-fashioned enough kind of curator to believe that part of your mission, in a way, is to take care of your books, like your family, in a way.
That's part of your cultural role.
Well, but it's not a view that's much in fashion among library professionals.
That's a very 19th century view of librarianship.
And if you are supposed to think of yourself as an information specialist or broker, I don't think the two are necessarily incompatible, but that's just the way things have gone.
Because in a way, the kinds of things you learn about
When you work with a large, important collection over the years, they come in.
It's not so much that you go out looking for connections between books, but they come on you, and then you pass that on and turn to other people who can use it, or you use it in your own work.
However, you accumulate a tremendous amount of, well, often it's just ideas.
Why do the books matter?
Why should anybody pay attention to them?
You know, children don't read them anymore.
And there are people mostly in the field of children's literature.
There's a very well-known, rather controversial scholar, Peter Hunt, who essentially says, history are books that children don't read anymore.
Who cares?
The history of children's books is essentially irrelevant.
Oh, all over the place.
Peter Hunt.
Let's see.
I'll do a search.
He teaches in, he writes in Gloucestershire.
He teaches it.
University of Wales.
He says these are really worthless?
Well, he just says it's not relevant.
It doesn't matter.
What really matters is what children are reading now.
Certainly, Darwin would love to get a hold of this.
This is a man who's totally dismissing books as a historical object.
Yeah, essentially, yeah.
Well, Peter Hunt and Brian Alderson, I don't know if that's another name you're familiar with.
Brian Alderson is...
I was very much interested in the history of children's books, and he and Peter just go at it hammering tongs.
As a matter of fact, I can dig it up for you now.
They had an exchange in children's book history newsletter.
Sometimes it's hard to tell how serious Peter Hunt is.
I'm beginning to think now he is genuinely serious.
It's not just polemic.
Young man, middle-aged man?
Oh, I suppose he must be...
I suppose he might be in his early 50s.
He's one of those kinds of Englishmen that's kind of hard to tell how old he really is.
I'm just wondering where he's coming at, or how he's coming at.
Well, he's quite clear.
I mean, he doesn't beat about the bush.
He says why he says that.
Well, what does he suggest as an alternative?
Is this not worth preserving?
Well, he says they're relics.
They're not a part of children's life.
They're gathered by collectors of museums or something.
Yeah, exactly, because they're dead books, I think.
I don't know that he uses that phrase, but that's the upshot of what he says, these books are dead.
I'm dealing with dead books, living books.
Harvard maintains there's no such thing as a dead book.
Yes, that sounds like Roger.
And I've been out to the Depository and really doing the Harvard Depository and how they shelve them, how they barcode them.
Very interesting.
How Ken Carpenter decides what books to send out there.
I went with him on one of his little trips and we selected a couple hundred books.
And I even, God forbid, I selected, you know, I can have this book based on the criteria that you've outlined, you know, to duplicate a copy of a book.
of a book that nobody reads.
It's an old novel.
Yep, that's going.
Let's make sure it doesn't have another introduction.
Let's see if there isn't a textual, physical quality that argues... Right, a special finding that someone wrote in it.
And he suggested that I read Genet's book on paratexts, which is very interesting, and it's going to apply it.
I got that from Cambridge.
I'm not sure I go again, but I'm very interested in this stuff.
And to suggest that books are dead is... Well, I think...
This is actually a long-time split in children's book studies.
People in children's literature often tend to be interested in normative judgments.
They're interested in, will a child like it?
Why does a child like it?
What do they get out of it?
Even if they're teaching children's literature in the university, often those are the kinds of things they're often interested in.
Not always, but that makes sense because, of course, a lot of them are teaching elementary school teachers.
They're teaching school librarians.
They're teaching sometimes parents who are coming back to take extension courses, and they want to know more about what they can give their kids to read.
That's a valid enterprise, and it needs to be done because one of the jobs is hooking adults
up with books to share with children or suggest that children read.
Of course, there are those that say that that's an adultist view, that only choices children make on their own count.
Those are the only real books that children like, all the other stuff.
You don't get into that at all here, do you?
Oh, no, sure, no, sure, because that's a longstanding debate.
To what extent do you let children pick what they read and what, on the other hand, do you expose them to because you think
Maybe they're ready to think about a particular subject.
It's maybe death.
You know, it can be any of those eternal subjects that children eventually have to start wrapping their minds around whether they want to or not.
Just for the record, when did you and your husband come here?
95.
Oh, very recently.
Yeah.
But what I was going to say, I was trying to get... No, I was trying to get back to the whole...
live dead book issue.
I think the problem is, this is something I'd like to write on myself one day, is that, you know, books have shelf lives in terms of how many generations are they read.
And why children, when children's books start being read, they suddenly become a lot better than an adult novel than it is read.
And I think it's partly just because, I suppose more so than for adults,
If you give children anything that's more or less realistic, once the conditions of the lives described become significantly different from the lives that kids now lead, the book doesn't make a lot of sense.
They don't connect.
Did you see the piece in the New York Times a few weeks ago about the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew, 70 years?
Why is it?
But they've been rewritten four times.
That's the point.
That's what you're saying.
They're adapting.
you know savvy uh yeah the road the roadster's got to go but the role of the woman is changing uh the mother i mean all of that right and i think the thing is 200 million copies of these books in print exactly and but the thing is when you get the further you get back children's books the texts are simple they look like they're easy but often in fact they're very difficult often what appears like a very simple text may be
really engaging in all kinds of important issues at the time it was written.
But it's very often very hard to recover them.
And so if someone, if somebody really spends the time, a friend of mine who works on Mariah Edgeworth, who was one of the first great, really realistic writers for children, a really marvelous writer, that the amount of work she's done sometimes to reestablish what the, something like what the story meant at the time it was writing it,
often much more controversial and much more pointed than you would think just to read it.
And all of a sudden, you know, it's as rich as reading a novel from a period where you can see, you know, you're dealing with the whole issue.
You know, all kinds of issues about how to raise children, you know, how do you teach children, how do children perceive, you know, all the big issues, they're there.
But on the other hand, when a children's book becomes a classic, it's there forever.
No?
Yes.
If you look.
Most children's classics that are... If you look at St.
Hallsberg's Polar Express, it's just a very small period of time.
That book's a bestseller every year.
For 15, you know, however many years it's been out.
Okay, but the real test is... Well, Harsindak's been on it.
But I was thinking, if you're thinking of real classics that have gone past one or two generations, all of those...
Mid-Victorian.
No, they're not gone.
In a community like Princeton, of course, kids have Alice read to them.
I don't know.
Outside communities like that, I don't honestly know.
It's interesting, though, if you go out on the web sometimes.
You go surfing on the web to see what's out there.
There are all kinds of web pages and children's books.
I mean, one of the reasons we decided to put C.S.
Lewis in the giant book, and I had... It's called the giant book out there.
It's the giant book.
Whose idea was that?
Oh, the gallery designer, Lynn Bradlin.
Men, L-A-N-N?
L-A-N-N-E.
B-R-E-S, L-A-N-N.
Yeah, but she's Jewish.
I don't know.
I never quite asked her how she got... Where is she from?
She's in Manhattan.
Did Voyage pick her?
Yeah, she was his choice.
So he undoubtedly articulated his loss.
Well, she appealed to him because she seemed the most creative.
I guess he thought she'd come up with something unexpected.
But what I was saying just briefly was,
Everybody on the design team wanted some sort of a fantasy to go in there, but the problem is, of course, most of the best fantasies aren't illustrated.
I hesitated to suggest C.S.
Lewis, probably, because it was a favorite of mine.
Most people would probably tell you I have hopelessly high-brow taste with Mr. Richard.
I did see something about Mary last weekend and laughed myself.
I was so ashamed of myself.
Never mind.
But I wasn't going to suggest it.
And then, for some reason, we just went out.
We weren't crawling on the web to see what was there.
And there are all these homepages on C.S.
Lewis, maintained by all kinds of different people, sometimes by... There are a lot of Christian groups, but there are also various chat rooms that kids run.
Anyways, I said, okay, we'll put them up.
Who uses that giant book?
Who's that for?
That's for kids.
The target age for the exhibit is ages 9 to 12, although we get kids a lot younger, casual visitors.
We get everything from 18-month-olds.
Who brings them?
It's mostly casual visitors at this point.
We're just about to hire a person to design and implement an outreach program.
Really?
I should have looked at my, I didn't have time, but I should have looked at my transcript of my chosen interview before I came here, because he really wants to engage.
Yes, he does.
In a real, meaningful way, and as charming and attractive as these things out here.
I don't know if that's precisely what he has in mind.
Well, I think this is another good case of where, I don't know if Lloyd has a clear idea of what he wants, but he'll know it when he sees it.
It's a big challenge, because... He believes in books for kids.
He believes in books for kids.
And he wants kids to come here and do something with books, or that you will do something for these kids with books, whether or not this is going to work within the big picture.
No, well, it's a big challenge, and, of course, part of the problem is... Princeton does not teach the public schools.
No.
Well, there are all kinds of things at Princeton, but finding out who all these people are when they do is a challenge.
Part of the problem is, of course, when you have rare books, you don't have the advantage a science museum has.
You can design stuff to be touched, punched, hit, whatever.
You've got that out there.
Yes, but you'll notice that it's not necessarily tied in any significant way to the collection itself.
It could just, it could be any, anywhere.
Is it an attempt, you don't have to ask, to placate Lloyd in a way, maybe, to, uh, hoping, perhaps?
Well, there's a, I would, it would be a lie to say there isn't an element of that when he threw... I don't want to embarrass you.
No, no, no, no, no, he, no.
I think if you asked him, he would tell you.
He threw this down as a gauntlet to the university to say, this is a challenge that the university needs to accept.
I think he also knows that I was very ambivalent about the whole concept of having a very high-tech interactive exhibit that was designed to teach and to instill lifelong learning with reading.
Partly just because I think there's a big ends and means question.
And I personally think where it really gets kids involved in reading is often just other people.
Other people who... Parents reading books?
Parents, grandparents, older siblings, teachers, librarians, whatever.
It's the personal contact that matters more.
My favorite photographs of my daughter's... We took a lot of research in Channel Land, isn't it?
I picture them on a train going up to Cambridge, and they were little reading books, other than to move under the Michelangelo statues.
I think, well, there's a time you can stop reading the book and look at the statues.
Oh, they're busy.
They're interesting.
But I mean, that's where the passion for books comes, I think.
It doesn't turn on.
I think that's what you're saying.
Yeah.
I was ambivalent about it.
I took the development of the exhibit very seriously.
It was hard to do because, frankly, the content was curated after the designer gave the presentation instead of being the other way around.
So maybe it's a good start?
It's a good start.
As a matter of fact, I have an idea for the next one, but I'll keep that to myself.
So this is a changing exhibition, perhaps?
It'll be there for at least two years.
How much beyond two years, I'm not sure.
Do you have anything printed on it that will help me?
I can send you stuff.
Okay.
I don't have to take notes on the whole thing.
No, we can send you drawings.
Very interesting.
Let's talk a little bit about, tell me about the library that you have, that you are custodian of.
Is it the library of children's books by which others will be measured, do you think?
Well, of course, all the collections are rather different.
Lloyd's is very different because of the international focus.
Well, the major collections focus on one national tradition and then have... Betsy Shirley, for instance.
Right.
The Ball one out of the early library.
Well, the Ball collection, of course, has some foreign language material.
So pretty focused, though.
Yeah.
But we have 32 different languages represented here, which makes it a nightmare for this catalog project, right?
But I didn't tell you Dan is ABD in Slavic linguistics, and frankly I needed somebody with his kind of experience in languages because of the problem of getting all the diacritics in, which in a machined environment is no joke.
As a matter of fact, these are all the sorts of things you've had to develop because we have Turkish, Latvian, Russian, German, Swedish, Czech,
Hungarian, Greek, Japanese, Chinese, Hebrew, some Arabic.
So, I'm assuming, correctly, I'm sure, that Lloyd is not fluent in 32 languages.
Nope.
So, that's fine.
How does he know what he's getting?
Is he just, I mean, is he using, is he relying on the advice?
He uses agents in some cases, all the Chinese material he's been buying the last couple of years.
He's an antiques dealer, I gather.
He's not weighing significance, or he's not even factoring that in, is he?
No, he's trying to get, I think, the idea with buying all the 20th century Chinese books would simply get as much as possible.
So apparently there's all this, it sounds like stuff that never got unpacked from the Cultural Revolution.
We've got a copy of it now.
And he's going to do the same thing for Japanese books, I hear now.
But when he announced this, negotiated it, funded it, got this space, what's your square footage here?
I don't care about that sort of thing.
But I mean, you have a fixed space here.
And yet you're getting twice the library that was anticipated.
Maybe larger.
So you're already basically probably out of space.
Yeah, I'm in that capacity now, essentially.
Well, let's see.
I'm not sure how much we'll get in the room there.
That's about four.
That's a quarter of it, actually.
That's about four of it, yeah.
Is that high spots or stuff that's visually... Well, that's the problem with... No, actually, a lot of it, frankly, believe it or not, is very...
carefully calculated how i could get the most member books up there so it worked it worked up to be almost a perfect mesh the the 20th century imprint in english language uh from the seconds yeah no they're the third and almost all the second
Do you call them tiers, by the way?
What do you call them?
Well, I guess you'd say they're floors.
The third floor, the top floor, and the middle floor.
And I had to fill in the last few just because for the opening.
The bottom range in the gallery on into the entrance are the books in English and European languages up to 1840, excluding the oversize.
Now, this excludes all the oversize.
You see, what you've done, that's the essence of the Harvard model, is you've eliminated the air.
Well, I pretty much had to.
And part of the reason, frankly, the reason why I have 16th, 17th, 18th, and early 19th century materials in there is because after about 1840, formats start getting significantly larger on the average, whereas here you can set the shelves about 10 inches apart.
Are they stuffed animals, or are they just stuffed animals, or are they significant?
No, they are significant.
They're significant.
was made by a woman on a big island in hawaii he was in a general store in the corner lloyd asked the owner of the store and she said no the woman said well maybe she'd make me a copy well anyway she would go to me and i uh anyway so when uh we knew opening day was coming i called up by the university
So that's a copy, or that's the one?
Yeah, that's the one, and he was in Neutrogena.
There were all kinds of animals in the Neutrogena headquarters, one of the boys.
He liked to do interior decorating.
Anyway, so I just said, ah, I'll send you Harry.
I said, Arnie, there's a sheep left.
So we have one of the eight Neutrogena sheep.
And they are?
Oh, she's in the corner of the interior.
I saw her there.
Yeah.
I took back there for the picture.
Now, the chicken, actually, I bought.
Lloyd told me that...
What did you say, the figure was $2,000 or $3,000 and my daughter could pick out more animals for the space.
Now we got the camel and we got the chicken.
How old was your daughter?
Oh, wonderful.
She must have had them all.
She probably wanted to take them home.
Well, actually, we haven't spent all our allotments, so I'm just waiting.
So tell me, what did your daughter pick?
The chicken.
The chicken is actually made by a Pennsylvania stuffed animal maker.
What's your daughter's name?
Claire.
C-L-A-A-R?
E-N-A-N?
E-N-A-N.
And the camel we found in Vermont when we were out visiting at Christmas.
Actually, I think I would like to actually contact the woman that made the little red hen and see if she'd make me the rest of the sky that's falling in, and then we can put them all around.
It's a fox and a scary fox.
Have you had a lot of kids in here?
Yeah, I'd say most days we get between 10 and 20, sometimes more.
So far, it's maybe three to five.
school groups a month we could certainly handle more but we've still been wrestling with things like maintenance contracts and i've been very reluctant to publicize until we get all that straight back because of course the more people come through the more often things break and the more often you have to have it serviced and you want everything up and running what's what's the reaction of the of the student body oh they like it oh yeah you can see him coming in and explain time to waste time
I bet some would like to come in and read here if they could.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Do you allow it?
I see a couple of brochures I'm going to grab to.
Go ahead.
And so I think you're about to tell me this is room for more books in here.
Yeah, but I'm probably going to fill it all up easy and I might still not get everything in that's in the fall.
You could probably get a couple thousand books in here, maybe.
No, more than that.
I'll probably get all the 19th century imprints.
I'll probably get most of the oversize.
But it's like the pamphlets, the graphic.
I mean, all these papers are going to have.
I have to find another paper.
Has there been much interest expressed by the scholarly community?
They're starting to come.
Most of them come from this.
I got it.
That welcome to the library.
That's lovely.
I like everything.
Great.
Most of the visitors we've had so far have not been within the priesthood.
Does this have anything to say about that?
Yeah.
I might just bring my wife and girls over here.
My older daughter is looking at the university.
She's a wonderful kid and a great student.
It's got to be probably one of the most competitive.
They're looking for leadership qualities, I think.
Well, she's the named head monitor at her school for next year.
She's a swimmer and she's the editor of her paint on all leadership kinds of things.
Really?
Yep, yep.
Looking for leadership.
They are, indeed.
Very much so.
She's the first girl to be named head monitor at Worcester Academy, I think, and, you know, whatever.
But for this leadership, that's great.
Yeah.
Well, I gather that.
Middlebury likes her swimming time, so.
I think they all like that.
Yeah.
They all like the athletics.
My feeling is anyone who gets it would be very lucky.
Well, good.
That's the story.
Yeah.
Let's see.
Who have we had come visit?
Let's see, we've had, from Germany, we've had Dr. Walter Sauer, who's an expert in Schruppelkater.
We've had Jerry Slocum, who collects puzzles of all sorts.
He has a puzzle museum in the back of his house in Beverly Hills.
He's fascinating.
I believe he was an engineer by profession.
Actually, he did one of the .
Oh, that's good.
Oh, that's nice.
Look at that.
But he's also a very serious scholar of puzzles, and he's working on the history of the tangram right now.
Which one do you call it?
The tangram, which is the seven pieces, geometric pieces, which can be put together.
Oh, sure, yeah.
He's busy researching where that came from in China and how it got to the West.
um let's see who else has come um let's see we've also had um oh right one of the uh shelby shelly davis
Collin Davis Fellows in history, and they soon came in.
She's working, she's very interested in, she's actually started out as a historian of medicine, and now she, I think she works, she's more, that's cultural history, but anyway, she was doing a paper on rat catchers.
And so she came to look at, she found some things here that were useful, and it wasn't the Pied Piper panel.
Let's see how else we can.
Yeah, well, I'm forgetting.
Yeah, they're mostly from outside the university.
Do they know it's here?
You mean the Princeton faculty?
No, but I mean these people coming here.
Yeah, they came specifically.
So is the contents of the library pretty well out there?
No.
Okay, what I can do is...
Is it fairly well catalogued?
Oh, yeah.
We have a record for everything.
And then Ivy sends us updates of the material.
What we have at the moment is Microsoft Access, which is not user-friendly.
Of course, you have some extraordinarily rare things, too.
Oh, now, here's some.
Now, I'll just stand up here.
It's an illustrated catalog with a story put out by the big Berlin department store.
I would guess in the 20s, but anyway, here it is.
It's a prize picture.
Everything's a baby's room.
Kids' clothes.
Oh, did you say this one?
I would guess it's in the 20s.
He has this because he does collect advertising ephemera that relate to kids, either if they use characters from children's books, for example, or like this.
It's actual products produced for children.
Another catalog of the same company is Celluloid Toys.
So anyway, we have the records, we have the catalog records in here.
This is one I've worked over and added a note, so... So people can access this from... No, this is essentially, at this point it's an in-house file, partly because it has all the acquisitions information, and one of the many things we have to do is
come up with a way of mounting the data that's fit for public consumption.
So what kinds of things can a scholar from Germany or France or England find here that they can't find?
Obviously, there must be things here.
It would be mostly the earlier material.
If you have it here.
Yeah.
Well, of course, the Germans are light years ahead of us.
appreciation and analysis of historical children's books.
They're very serious about it.
A lot more important catalogs, exhibition catalogs and things that come out of Germany just all the time.
I regret to say I don't know.
I haven't really made contact with prospective colleagues in Germany.
It's something I hope I can do in the next few years because I'd really like to start
So have you anticipated one question that I asked about the response?
And you said among Princeton people?
Well, that wasn't a question I was asking, but it's a very good question.
Well, Princeton in some ways is still very the Princeton it was.
It's changed a lot.
But I get more points for having Princeton faculty and Princeton students come in and use the collection, I think, rather than I can say.
Oh, I had such-and-such from so-and-so come and visit him.
Doesn't compute.
That's right.
That would make a point.
Well, actually, now, what's his name?
He's just retired from art and archaeology, and he's writing his autobiography.
And he came in about two weeks ago, and he said, and this is the sort of question you get all the time.
I had a book when I was a kid.
I don't remember the title.
I don't remember the author.
It was this big.
It was green.
There was a unicorn in it.
Can you help me find it?
What happens so often?
All the time.
That's probably the commonest question you get.
That's great.
Sometimes you can answer them, sometimes you can't.
It depends on how good their memory was.
Well, he came in with one of those questions.
He said, now, we had it just before we were told to evacuate Pearl Harbor.
And my sister, I thought my sister brought it and she didn't.
And it's absolutely crucial to my development because one of these pictures, this is one of my pictures, these pictures, I, you know, attribute to my whole interest in whatever I said.
Wow.
I said, okay.
I'm serious then.
And he said, he said, now.
He said it was this big and it had orange lettering on the cover and it had cats dressed up.
And I thought,
I thought, mister, you don't know how many books there are with cats dressed up in clothes.
And I thought, whew.
Now, he hadn't identified himself at that point as a Princeton faculty member.
And I said, well, okay, what else can you tell me about it?
He said, oh, the illustrations were photographed.
I said, mm-hmm.
He said, and I think... Yeah, he did.
Well, the thing is, his recollections were so precise, I was pretty sure that... I was pretty... Well, and he said, now, I think...
I think it was the four little kittens.
I said, okay.
Oh, he thinks.
He said, he thinks.
So I went into the database.
I searched under subject cats, and I searched the collation for a truncated photograph, and two books came.
You have all that detail.
Well, here.
Actually, I can show you exactly how I did it.
Actually, it was pretty good.
I didn't myself.
I hate to stop the narrative.
It's a great story, but keep going.
Well, the funny thing was, it took me about five minutes to do it.
Walking was here?
He was standing right there.
Did he remember it when you found it?
Yeah, for a second.
Oh, then you went and got the book for him.
I did.
Oh, you better remember his name from me, by the way.
I'll have to.
He gave me his card.
Actually, Dan will remember his name.
I might even give him a call.
It'll help.
Okay, here we go.
So I typed out the records.
Okay, Tiger's King, 1997.
It obviously isn't that.
He was sitting right here.
Why should I pull that?
Okay, here it was.
It says Four Little Kittens.
Oh, and he said in it, so it was in 1930-something.
So here was 1934, Four Little Kittens with photographic illustrations.
I knew that had to be it, so I went up in the wall and pulled it down.
Put it down.
This is about, actually, about five minutes after he came in.
He's the author of this book?
This book is, actually, I can print this out.
I can print this out.
Get this guy's name for me.
I won't surprise him.
We'll give him a call.
Oh, I think he's very nice.
He's a well-known, somebody like that.
Yeah.
Also, he actually knows Lloyd, or knew Lloyd from Princeton.
That's a great story.
Well, I must say, I usually can't pull a rabbit out of the hat.
You pull four kitties out of the hat.
But it's his, you know.
But often people's recollection of their childhood books is surprisingly accurate.
I mean, it sounds like they must be making it up.
But if you put it together often, if they think it was green, it was white.
He'd have been a candidate for hypnosis, you know, how the hypnosis could have pulled out of him.
I had a volume of Shakespeare when I went to Bates.
Oh my God, I hope she doesn't bite his head off.
But this is when people come in and ask you these kinds of things, and a lot of times you can't.
Well, part of the reason I can't do it is because, at least in the 20th century, it's selective.
It's not exhaustive.
And when people come up with this, the collection just isn't that deep in the 20th century to pull it out.
That's someplace where Library of Congress would probably do better with that kind of inquiry that people ask.
Does this library yet support the curriculum?
Is there anything in the curriculum yet that... No, no, no.
Well, of course, there's a professor in the English department, there's Louie Neffelmacher, who teaches children's literature and also does graduate seminars.
Now, I heard a rumor last week that the history department has hired somebody in the history of education, but I don't know what exactly that means.
I don't know if that means he does one specific time period in one country, or if he does... Well, that would be great.
That would be great.
That would answer a lot of... Well, the people who are likely to use the question
here, I think, may not be interested in children's books per se, but they may find children's books useful to their projects.
Now, when she was a senior, a junior, she was doing a paper, and she wanted to do a sociological analysis of literature at the end of the 19th century, and she was interested, and I said, well,
We went round and round, and I said, well, you said, how about trying the Andrew Lang Collar fairy tale books?
Because then you wanted to.
They came out during a very precise period.
There's bound to be a fair amount of response out there, because of the way all the books are set up with identifying the origin of the story.
so she went to town on that and was quite happy because then she didn't need to she started out using the rare editions but i pointed out to her that the other advantages of course a lot of these have been reprinted or you can check them out of the stacks and so you wouldn't need to rely on the copies here but it got her started we had another woman who did a
did a junior paper on images of the Philippines and American children's books in the first quarter of the century.
Well, the funny thing was that she came.
I managed to find her four books, which absolutely floored me.
I didn't think I had to work hard for that one.
And then she went away.
And I thought, well, okay, I guess it didn't work.
And then she came back, maybe three months later, to say thank you.
And then she needed pictures.
We have a graduate student in the English department right now.
working late 18th, early 19th century, and she's doing something on, I think, the construction of femininity, and she's looking at books on dolls, and she's been swatting away on them for most of the summer, so I found her five or six books in the time period she wanted, and I assume, you know, she's still got the books out, and she's coming in a couple times a week, so I assume she's happy, and she doesn't need me, so.
It will happen.
Oh, yeah.
It's going to take a while.
Princeton isn't that crazy about having scholars come from all over the world to use it.
It's just for my own... Oh, yeah.
Well, I know you're going to talk to Tony Grassman, so don't repeat what I'm saying.
Yeah, they tend... Well, all right.
I'll give you an example.
This is off the record.
My husband was at the Clark Library at UCLA for a long time.
And because they have a very extensive collection of Oscar Wilde manuscripts, he was working over the years with Merlin Holland, Wilde's grandson, because he's the literary executor of the estate.
So Merlin's just finished another important book on his grandfather, and he was coming through the East on, you know, book tour or whatever.
And he asked John if there was any way that he could maybe come and give a lecture at Princeton.
You know, he's a professional writer.
He needs these to live on.
So, and John knows this.
So John knew he wanted to get him a good honorarium.
Well, the attitude tends to be, well, but we're giving them a venue in Princeton.
What do they name you for?
I know that.
There's always one.
Was it for me, by the way?
Yes, in that way.
And I said, Dan will remember.
The reason I find it a little funny is after working at the Morgan and the Huntington and UCLA, it may partly be because most of my experience has been in independent research libraries, where your mission is much clearer.
People come to your library to use your collections, and people come from all over, and so I just find it a little odd that
Princeton would be... Oh, dear.
I never let people take pictures of me.
Just that Princeton would tend to be that parochial still.
I got one.
This may just be my response.
It may be an idiosyncratic response, but... But you're treated with the utmost civility and not as it's... Stafford, stafford, stafford.
Well, I mean, one thing that Lloyd had said was, well, I mean, he wanted, he said he wants the best librarian, and he wants to pay whatever it takes to do that, and that there was, I don't have that.
academic librarian as a book librarian one of the real problems facing the profession is that right now there's nobody behind my generation to come and take the jobs and so i guess i don't know part of it we haven't been we haven't been reaching out to the right people to make sure that the next generation's custodians are coming coming along and will take take good care of
the collections they're in charge of.
It doesn't help that Columbia dissolves its life.
Well, I think it's part of the whole environment in the last 10 or 20 years.
Anybody in an in-quote so-called service profession, well, I mean, why would you be in one if you weren't a wuss?
You'd be out in business having your own.
Right.
So outreach does weigh very heavily on some people's minds.
If we don't start
I don't like to say promoting and publicizing ourselves, because I don't know if that's exactly what we're doing, but if we aren't getting younger people engaged in the whole idea of what goes on and why it matters.
Let me talk about librarianship.
Yeah, librarianship, and especially rare book librarianship.
There's no money in it.
I mean, you can make a whole lot more money managing a system for a business or whatever.
I mean, there's no doubt about it.
You'll make more money.
You'll probably get more recognition.
for having done it but this is great this is fun though well i think it's i think it's important i think it's important but it's not the sort of thing that you can stand up on the top of buildings